---
title: Preface
categories: guides ts
permalink: /guides/ts/preface.html
layout: default
---

Before you start reading about *my* ideas on how to typeset, I would like to explain exactly what I hope you get out of the guide and also what you will not get out of it. And before I explain that, I'd like to take the time to mention that typesetting is a creative activity. Considering this, this guide will not tell you everything that's possible, and it is also highly likely that some of the things it tries to explain won't suit you at all. If you truly want to develop as a typesetter, it is up to you to figure out what your style is and how you want to structure your workflow around that. In addition, it should be obvious, but you should never think that there is only one way to do something. If someone tells you that, they are wrong. There are certainly some ways that are faster and others that are slower, some that are more elegant and others that rely on brute force. But, in the end, it is up to you to decide how you will tackle the problems you face.

This may make it sound like work with other people isn't necessarily a great idea, and in some cases it is true that collaboration on typesetting work actually is restricting and possibly irritating. However, do not undervalue the feedback you get from others. If they say they think something looks off, chances are enough other people will too. And if they offer an alternative way of doing the sign, give that approach some consideration and weigh it against what you want to do and what your goals are. As with most other things, typesetting becomes truly interesting when you take the time to appreciate how people do things differently and you try to learn from that.

### What will this guide do for you? 

It will serve as an introduction to the ASS format and to the utilities that Aegisub and peripheral tools provide you to help you do your job. While it may suggest certain methods or approaches, the emphasis should be on the tools. I hope to leave the thinking of what is possible to you. Since the guide focuses on tools, it attempts to build from the bottom up (as far as complexity is concerned). There will be a basic core, an intermediate level (which covers tools that are probably still essential to typesetting in modern fansubbing), and then an attempt at covering the various advanced methods/tools that exist. While the first two sections should not change much, the last will be very dynamic as there are people constantly pushing the limits of what you can do with ASS format and various external programs.

### What will this guide not do for you? 

It will not typeset for you. Ability comes with practice, and practice requires you to put time in. It is as simple as that. You will not go from zero to hero in an hour. The guide also will not offer complete documentation for all of the tools. Most scripts and other programs come with well written explanations on how to use them and in some cases video tutorials demonstrating how they work. I will not do anything as redundant as rewriting those things. It will also not cover how to use outdated versions of scripts (such as the old Aegisub Motion). For certain parts of the guide, I will explicitly state which software version I used while writing it, but for other parts you can expect it to be most relevant to the latest release of whatever tool it's discussing. This guide won't offer you much help as far as troubleshooting errors and unexpected results, so if you have problems like that, please visit #irrational-typesetting-wizardry on Rizon (IRC). Finally, this guide may not always be 100% correct or clear. If you see something that you think is unclear or perhaps simply wrong, I urge you to contact me on either Twitter or IRC, and I will modify it to make it clearer.

### How should I approach this?

The general structure of the guide is simple; it is a collection of articles each of which attempts to address a topic comprehensively. Because of the nature of typesetting, learning some topics requires an understanding of other topics. So in general I have structured the guide so that you are best prepared for each article if you read the whole guide in order, starting with the Introduction article, then working through the Basic Typesetting section, and then the Intermediate Typesetting section. As far as I see it, most of the topics in the Advanced Typesetting section are optional, but I encourage you to skim over them to see if any of them interest you. Each article will come with one or multiple "tests" that will allow you to practice on signs that I think test your ability to apply what you've just read. They also will have links to any relevant further reading, such as documentation, more in depth articles, or other guides written by other people.

I hope that this gives you a good idea of what lies in store. I wish you good luck and a lot of fun as you work your way to mastering typesetting in Aegisub. And, please, don't forget to ask people questions.
