---
title: On K-Pop
categories: blog
layout: default
---
I suppose I should begin by stating that this is primarily a delayed response to the surprising amount of criticism I've seen about Korean pop music and the culture surrounding it. I will also say that, as with a lot of things, the issues raised are at least somewhat legitimate. However, I'd like to put into writing exactly why I continue to follow the genre/scene despite the many issues it has.

### Legitimate Criticism

#### K-Pop is fake

This is probably the main issue people that are moderately familiar with Korean pop music raise, that the scene lacks authenticity and that the media output is primarily controlled by a few huge, competing corperations, leaving few, if any, means for artists to rise to popularity outside of working in those companies. Even "worse", in general K-Pop artists are not necessarily chosen because of musical ability. Instead, companies recruit young, promising individuals and take them in for several years to train them and mold them to fit the form of their next media campaign. The control over the music, style, and most other things lies in the hands of the company administration, not the performers. It is not until a group has had many years of continued success that they are potentially afforded some degree of control over their act. Simply put, Korean pop music is manufactured. The companies involved make decisions and invest a huge amount of resources to give viewers a very specific type of experience, not just musically, but also as far as performances, talk show appearances, and everything else that comes with being a pop star is concerned.

However, this sort of music as a multi-media experience approach isn't really new, though perhaps it hasn't quite been done to this extreme before. For example, EDM sells itself almost as more of an experience than just a genre of music. Sets by EDM artists are often meticulously crafted, with stunning visuals, careful planning of guest appearances, and management of the pace of the pieces performed to allow the audience to go through cycles of action and recovery. This still doesn't really change the fact that the face of K-Pop is so very different from the cogs behind it, but it does perhaps elicudate why Korean companies try so hard to give fans something specific, controlled, replicatable.

#### The music is garbage

A lot of K-Pop music is legitimately awful. And the genre is uniform enough that many songs match each other formula-wise down to the beat. To see some examples, just take a look at [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yMqL1iWfku4) or [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVcfmp7h8Vo). There is no way to deny that K-Pop (generally speaking) is bad. However, this is equally true of a lot of other things, including anime, hip-hop, Western drama shows, and video games. For all of these things, people can cite exceptions, artists/series that shine like diamonds in the rough. Unfortuantely, the excellent acts in K-Pop tend to be overlooked, for one reason or another. Also, Gangnam Style's popularity definitely did not help promote an image of K-Pop as a music genre that wants to (and should) be take seriously.

### Criticism that I will object to

#### Why not just watch porn?

So there is a lot behind this statement. First off, it suggests that the main appeal of Korean pop music is the physical attractiveness of the performers. While I can state that this is most certainly not the case for me, suppose for a second that this is true. Then, it also suggests that porn and K-Pop fulfill the same role, to satisfy an individual's sexual desires. Again, for me this isn't true at all. I watch porn like most other people (and not some weird drawn anime stuff), and my interest in K-Pop is completely independent of my sexual interests. In fact, I'd say that my interest in K-Pop is driven by my interest in my own image. K-Pop represents an idealized image of what I could possibly be like. The potential, and perfectly valid, response to this is: "Why delude yourself with an image of yourself that you can only obtain with a lot of money and a career centered around it?" But in this case, I don't really see how watching porn is any better, since it perpetuates incredibly fake ideas about how sex is and, even worse, what it means to love someone. The same goes for a majority of Western film and TV, as well as anime and many other things. We, as a species, choose to envelop ourselves in images and ideas that are for the most part entirely unrealistic. I don't see why it's a problem if it's K-Pop, but not if it's porn.

#### You don't even understand the language

I think this is a pretty stupid point to bring up, but I'll just say that in the past, present, and future, music has always transcended language barriers. Just look at all of those operas written in Latin. Good music is good, no matter what language it is in.

### An Example

A group I feel has gotten relatively little attention when compared to groups whose main strengths are their visuals, like AOA, EXO, or Girl's Day, is f(x), a (currently) four-member group managed by the entertainment giant SM Entertainment. f(x) has a style that pushes the envelope of what K-Pop can be. Every album they put out manages to merge several musical styles together to bring out something new. It also says something that they are as successful as they are while primarily releasing full albums in an industry that is primarly driven by EP and mini-album releases. If you are at all interested in what I think is legitimately fantastic music, give this album a listen.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/x2LwR_D-sio" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Several songs on the album sound a lot like Western songs that I like equally well. Specifically, Airplane (the 8th track) reminds me a lot of Porter Robinson's Flicker, despite coming out before it. 

Long story short, I think Korean pop has some legitimately excellent acts, and perhaps you may take the time to look around and see what you can find that appeals to you. After all, thanks to the attempts of the companies in charge to reach as many different niche audiences as possible while maintaining broad appeal, K-Pop is fairly diverse and still pretty accessible. But maybe it's better if you decide that for yourself.