---
title: Thoughts on Bloodborne
categories: blog
layout: default
background: Bloodborne01.jpg
---
I've been meaning to formalize my thoughts on Bloodborne for a while, and at this point I think I've played the game enough to be able to do that. I'd like to preface this with a comment saying that Bloodborne is almost certainly my favorite game. I am not a particularly experienced gamer, so if you think X or Y is a better game, chances are I haven't played or completed it. But this is just for me to finally write about how I feel about the game. I may or may not actually write up a more formal review later.

Here I would like to note that while I will try to avoid direct plot spoilers, it is hard to discuss the game at any length without revealing things that could spoil parts of the game for new players. Considering this, if you have not played the game and are even considering playing it, I highly recommend reading no further in order to avoid spoiling yourself. You'd be surprised how much these little spoilers will stick with you. I remember watching a little Dark Souls footage 3 years ago, and when I reached the same spot in the game on my first playthrough, the images came back to me so vividly that I knew exactly what to do and where to go, which was unfortunate in a sense.

### Concept

In a very rough sense, Bloodborne follows the story of the player character hunter as he/she explores Yharnam, a town ruled by the church and ravaged by beasts. It is very hard to say more without spoiling the direction the story goes, but as the PC hunter advances, he/she descends into what is atmospherically effectively an insanity-inducing dungeon, where the only way to get out is to progress through the game. It is this atmosphere that truly makes Bloodborne fantastic. Keeping consistent with previous From Software games, Bloodborne features highly responsive combat, complex, intricate level design, and a diverse set of enemies and bosses that the PC hunter encounters along the way. All of this comes together to give the player a game that will take them on the order of 50 (and an additional 10 for the DLC) hours to beat the first time around, and easily another 100 hours to try everything out.

### Gameplay

#### PvE

Bloodborne's PvE experience is in a sense defined by the lack of a decent shield within the game. In Dark Souls, the player always had the opportunity to enjoy the (false) feeling of safety that comes with hiding behind a shield. It made exploration and progression into the unknown less risky and allowed the player to mitigate a lot of damage in encounters with new enemies. This was counterbalanced by limited healing charges and few good means of getting HP back without healing. Bloodborne, on the other hand, gives the player the potential to heal a lot (albeit with blood vials, which are consumables). It also introduces the new concept of rallying, which allows you to regain health you lost soon after you take damage. This balance adjustment encourages speed and aggression in Bloodborne. The measured approach players might have taken in Dark Souls will likely prove ineffective.

This leads into the styles of mob and boss encounters in Bloodborne. Bloodborne has a lot of enemies, and they are also all very different, but they have one thing in common: they will all come after you aggressively. This, in conjunction with the lack of a shield, means that Bloodborne heavily encourages players to carefully observe their surroundings as well as develop quick reflexes to respond to some of the more deadly surprises. However, despite the variety of the general mobs, the bosses in Bloodborne are the true msaterpiece. Varying from human-like to slow and lumbering to quick and hyper-aggressive, no two boss fights are the same, or even remotely similar. Many bosses will take the player long to beat, and much, much longer to master. However, the game never suffers from the sort of bad hitbox detection and ghost damage sources like in Dark Souls I and II, making for an experience that truly puts the responsibility to learn the fight on the player and rewards adaptability.

Finally, I need to address the armor and weapons in Bloodborne. Before I say anything else, armor is basically irrelevant. The stats it gives are negligible and at most it might save you on the order of 20-30 damage on a boss attack, which might be all you need. However, equipment burden is not a thing, and there is no heavy tank armor set that will offer you excellent defenses and allow you to tank through fights. The most utility any armor set offers is poison resistance, frenzy resistance, or elemental/arcane armor. Even the elemental/arcane armor will only make the really hard-hitting attacks hit slightly less hard, but you'll still feel the pain and have to chug vials. Now, on to the weapons in Bloodborne: there are a lot of weapons, each of which have the depth of an entire Dark Souls weapon class. Furthermore, every weapon is viable, unlike some weapons in Dark Souls I and II that are not intended to be used for anything other than challenge runs. This means that each weapon is worth a playthough on its own, and the way stats and upgrades work in Bloodborne, you basically have to commit to only one or two per build.

#### PvP

Bloodborne's PvP is actually quite good as far as Soulsborne games are concerned. Dark Souls suffered from casting spam and incredibly wide backstab windows thanks to 900 ping. Thanks to the lack of the tools for pure caster builds, there aren't really any spells to spam. And thanks to the excellent changes to backstabs (which for some reason are being changed back for Dark Souls III), backstabs require incredible timing and precise movement to obtain, not just a roll and an R1 into the opponent's stomach. Additionally, the removal of poise as a numerical stat means that poise strength builds aren't retardedly strong. As I mentioned before, Bloodborne weapons are all viable, and this is true for PvP too. This makes for highly varied encounters and makes the PvP endgame a lot more fun.

One unfortunate aspect of PvP, which is also one that keeps it interesting, is that it is heavily dependent on chalice dungeon drops (blood gems and runes). However, I understand that this is 100% necessary for PvE endgame, especially top tier blood gems. This is mostly due to the fact that there aren't arcane or bloodtinge scaling weapon buffs, meaning that the sort of high DPS endgame that was possible in Dark Souls isn't possible in Bloodborne, at least not through the same means. This is where cursed blood gems come in. Three good blood gems can more than double the damage of your weapon, providing the damage boost that crystal magic weapon and sunlight blade offered in Dark Souls.

Overall, Bloodborne PvP is very rewarding and, more importantly, very active. I would say that it is definitely worth putting the time into one PvP build at least, and this is something every Bloodborne player should do. Just for reference, the Bloodborne PvP meta is around Blood Level 120, and 50 Vitality and 50 in your primary combat stat is a must.

### Overall Impressions

As I said before, Bloodborne was my favorite gaming experience. What particularly surprised me was how deep of an emotional footprint the game left on me. I was truly invested in the game, and I felt fear, anxiety, and true terror according to what was happening to my character. This is distinct from Dark Souls, where the sort of melancholic descent as you dismantle the land of the ancient lords didn't really have that deep of an impact on me. Perhaps I don't have a taste for subtlety, but Bloodborne's in-your-face, volatile, aggressive style had me reeling at every turn, and the adrenaline I felt while playing it matched the most exciting experiences I had experienced earlier as a child and teenager. Bloodborne is a game I hope everyone gets the opportunity to play, and I hope that some people can relate to how I feel about it.
