---
title: An Update
categories: blog
layout: default
---
As with every new semester, my situation has changed a bit, and I am just now (a month in) beginning to come to terms with what I need to do to be successful. 

My courses this semester are a bit different from last semester in nature; rather than being lab-work/application focused like a lot of my courses last semester, most of my classes this semester are more "traditional." One notable exception to this is the web development class I am taking, which requires me to work with one group for the entire semester. Together we will do several projects, and hopefully we won't hate eachother by the end. In terms of hours of work, this course will definitely be the most involved because actually working with other people to get something done makes things take quite a bit longer. Unfortunately, so far, it has not been stimulating. Other than that, I need to focus on my physics and math courses and continue to work on my research projects, so that I can actually have relevant, new things to put into papers and a thesis next year. Slowly, but surely, I am getting there.

My health is actually quite good. I am doing better at being hydrated and my weight has been pretty steady for a while. I'd like to actually put on a little weight, but for now I will settle on not continuing to losing weight. My diet is a bit one-dimensional, but overall it is fairly clean. I *do* need to eat more vegetables, but I'm starting to figure out how to work those in. My lifts are going great. In fact, I surpassed my expectations in a lot of ways and am honing in on several intermediate strength goals I set for myself. I'm not going to lie, it feels great to see the discipline with which I've followed the guidelines for my healthier life result in some substantial improvements. We'll see how far I can take it, but eventually I'll probably max on most of my lifts. At that point, I'll take a week or so off, and then deload and start cutting.

My personal life is a bit sparse, mostly because I want it to be that way. By this I mean no insult to any of my friends, but I feel I devote an unreasonable amount of time to either interacting with them or thinking about them, which is causing me to fall behind on other things I should be doing (coursework, research, working-out). There are other personal issues that I am dealing with, but I think I have to think about them and sort them out myself. I've already consulted some people quite close to me, and their advice helped, but I still need to think about and decide on what my approach towards certain people, groups, and situations will be.
